docs: Perf tests for the metric agent (#406)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/contributor/performance-tests/metrics/metrics.md

# Hardened Metric Agent setup

The aim of this exercise is to harden the metric agent such that it can satisfy the metric load of most of the use cases.

## Setup

> For the test environment following things were considered:

Reviewer: actually used

> For the test environment following things were considered:

Reviewer: Reworked

> - Provisioned a GCP cluster with kubernetes (n2-standard-16)

Reviewer: This basically have to describe test environment not just use or install in this order

> - Provisioned a GCP cluster with kubernetes (n2-standard-16)

Reviewer 2: So the order does not matter?

> - Deploy Telemetry operator using `make deploy-dev`

Reviewer: Yes, should be manager

> - Deploy Telemetry operator using `make deploy-dev`

Reviewer: Reworked

- Deploy prometheus for visualizing the metrics
- Istio deployment is needed due to Prometheus

> - - Machine types n2-standard-16 (16 CPU, 64Gi memory), Gardener supports max 100 pods per node

Reviewer: this seems to be a typo

> Install monitoring and istio

Reviewer: let me compile this section and divide in two section test environment and setup test environment

> Install monitoring and istio

Reviewer: Reworked

```unix
kyma deploy -s main --component istio --component monitoring
```

> alternatively istio CRDS can be installed from [here](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/master/kubernetes/customresourcedefinitions.gen.yaml) and only monitoring stack can be installed

Reviewer: Reworked

> - [Avalanche prometheus metric load generator](https://blog.freshtracks.io/load-testing-prometheus-metric-ingestion-5b878711711c)

Reviewer: Reworked

> Config map of the metrics agent

Reviewer: Describing configuration of metric agent would be complex, we just put this ConfigMap as final configuration used for the tests

> Config map of the metrics agent

Reviewer: Reworked

```
Configuration changes needed for metrics agent
```yaml
    processors:
        batch:
            send_batch_size: 1024
            timeout: 10s
            send_batch_max_size: 1024
        memory_limiter:
            check_interval: 0.5s
            limit_percentage: 85
            spike_limit_percentage: 10
```

Avalanche load generator deployment
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: avalanche-metric-load-generator
spec:      
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: avalanche-metric-load-generator
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: avalanche-metric-load-generator
      annotations:
        prometheus.io/path: /metrics
        prometheus.io/port: "8080"
        prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: avalanche-metric-load-generator
        image: quay.io/freshtracks.io/avalanche
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        args:
        - --metric-count=500
        - --series-count=20
        - --port=8080
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: "128Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
          name: metrics
```

> Service for metric agent metrics

Reviewer: this should be applied to collect metric agent metrics for analysis

> Service for metric agent metrics

Reviewer: Reworked

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    prometheus.io/port: "8888"
    prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
    prometheus.io/scheme: "http"
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: telemetry-metric-agent
  name: telemetry-metric-agent-metrics
  namespace: kyma-system
spec:
  clusterIP: None
  ports:
  - name: http-metrics
    port: 8888
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 8888
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: telemetry-metric-agent
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: ClusterIP
```

## Testcases

### Assumptions

We tweak metrics and series value with 10 labels in each metric data point. The test is executed for 1 hour to have a stabilized output. Additionally, the load is scaled slowly to prevent spikes which might cause OOMs of metric agent.

We identified following test cases:

> 1. Multiple pods all running on a single node and export metrics (to find how many workloads supported)

Reviewer: Is not a must but I think this is logical order for measurements

> 1. Multiple pods all running on a single node and export metrics (to find how many workloads supported)

Reviewer: let me link the section to the list

2. Workload generating huge amount of metrics (To understand how scraping works when the workload exposes several MB of metrics)
3. Have multiple workloads across different nodes (To understand prometheus SDS behaviour with multiple services)
4. Verify sample limit test
5. Multiple pods and services scraped from multiple receivers

### Multiple pods all running on a single node and export metrics
Setup:

Avalanche load generator configuration per pod:
- Metric count: 500
- Metric series: 20
- Number of labels: 10

To simulate a smooth ramp-up and avoid huge data flood at the beginning, load generator was started with 5 instances, instance count was increased at 5 instances every minute until peak was reached.

This test was executed on a single node installation to determine the limits of a single metric agent, after the load generator reached `28` instances, metric agent hits the limits and stays stable with this setup. Any load above this setup would cause memory limiter to refuse incoming traffic.

> The graph below shows the average metric points processed by the `prometheus metric receiver` per second, agent reaches an average of `14K metric points/sec`

Reviewer: Reworked

![Peak accepted metric points](./assets/overall-peak-metric-point.jpg)

> Following graph shows the refused metric points from the configured `memory_limiter`, with traffic above 14K metric points/sec results in  metrics being refused by the `memory_limiter`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the refused metric points from the configured `memory_limiter`, with traffic above 14K metric points/sec results in  metrics being refused by the `memory_limiter`. 
```
Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

Reviewer: Reworked

![Peak refused metric points](./assets/overall-peak-metric-point-refused.jpg)

Following graph shows memory utilization of metric agent during test phase.
![Peak memory utilization of metric agent](./assets/overall-peak-memory.jpg)

Following graph shows CPU utilization of metric agent during test phase.
![Peak CPU utilization of metric agent](./assets/overall-peak-cpu.jpg)

### Workload generating huge amount of metrics

This scenario tests a single metric endpoint with huge amount of data, Avalanche load generator deployed with a single pod instance and configured with 1000 distinct metrics and 20 metric series for each metric with 10 labels.

> Setup:

Reviewer 2: line 306 and 309ff seem to convey the exact same information. Why do we present the same content twice?

Reviewer: Reworked

Avalanche load generator configuration:
- Metric Count: 1000
- Metric Series: 20
- Number of label: 10

> Metric count was increased in 1000 steps to find the limit of the metric agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the limit of the metric agent, metric count was increased in 1000 steps.
```

In one thousand single steps (1, 2, 3, ..., 999, 1000), or in steps of 1000 (0, 1000, 2000, 3000...)?

Reviewer: in step of 1000

Reviewer: Reworked

Following graph shows max stable load from single target with huge amount of metric data.
![Peak accepted metric points](./assets/single-target-peak-metric-point.jpg)

Metric agent reached max `7K metric points/sec` from a single metric target, with 6000 and 20 metric series. In this test scenario the 

>  measured raw metric payload size was `~51MB`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Another test was performed to determine the impact of different metric series on metric agent. For this the test metric series were increased from `20` to `30`, distinct metric count started from `1000` and increased in `1000` steps until the limit of metric agent was reached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To determine the impact of different metric series on metric agent, another test was performed: For this the test, the metric series were increased from `20` to `30`, distinct metric count started from `1000` and increased in `1000` steps until the limit of metric agent was reached.
```
Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

> Metric agent reached a peak of `~7K metric points/sec` (yellow line from graph above) with `4000` distinct metric. In this setup the measured raw metric payload size was `~31MB`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metric agent reached a peak of `~7K metric points/sec` (yellow line from the previous graph) with `4000` distinct metric. In this setup, the measured raw metric payload size was `~31MB`.
```

Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

> In both the configurations metric agent reached a peak of `~7K metric points/sec` independent size of raw metric data, thus raw metric payload size has no impact on metric agent performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both configurations, the metric agent reached a peak of `~7K metric points/sec` independent size of raw metric data. Thus, the raw metric payload size has no impact on metric agent performance.
```

Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

> In both configurations Avalanche load generator generated `120K metric points/scrape` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In both configurations, the Avalanche load generator generated `120K metric points/scrape` .
```
Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

> > **NOTE:** Avalanche load generator resources have to be changed for this scenario, for this test CPU settings changed to 400m and Memory to 1Gi 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Avalanche load generator resources must be changed for this scenario. For this test, CPU settings were changed to 400m and Memory to 1Gi. 
```

### Have multiple workloads across different nodes

Setup:

Gardener GCP cluster:
- Cluster with 15 Nodes

> - Machine types n2-standard-16 (16 CPU, 64Gi memory), Gardener supports max 100 pods per node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Machine types n2-standard-16 (16 CPU, 64Gi memory), Gardener supports max 100 Pods per Node
```

Avalanche load generator configuration:
- Metric Count: 100
- Metric Series: 20
- Number of label: 10

Prometheus:

> - Instance memory increased to the 7Gi

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Instance memory increased to 7Gi
```

> To simulate a smooth ramp-up and avoid huge data flood at the beginning, load generator started with `100` instances, instance counts was increased every by `100` instances every 5 minutes until max pod count of cluster reached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To simulate a smooth ramp-up and avoid huge data flood at the beginning, load generator started with `100` instances. Instance count was increased every by `100` instances every 5 minutes until the max Pod count of cluster was reached.
```

Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

> Following graph show metric agent received metrics 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows metric agent received metrics:
```
I don't understand this sentence. It shows what exactly? The metrics that are received _by_ the metric agent? The metric agent that received the metrics?

Reviewer: metric data receiver by the metric agent

![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/max-pod-agent-accepted-metrics.jpg)

> Following graph show metric gateway received metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows metric gateway received metrics:
```
I don't understand this sentence. It shows what exactly? The metrics that are received _by_ the metric gateway? The metric gateway that received the metrics?

Reviewer: metrics data received by the metric agent

Reviewer: Reworked

![Metric gateway accepted metrics](./assets/max-pod-gateway-accepted-metrics.jpg)

> Following graph show metric gateway exported metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows metric gateway exported metrics:
```
I don't understand this sentence. It shows what exactly? The metrics that are exported by the metric gateway? The metric gateway that exported the metrics?

Reviewer: Reworked

![Metric gateway exported metrics](./assets/max-pod-gateway-sent-metrics.jpg)

> Following graph show metric agent CPU utilization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the metric agent CPU utilization:
```

![Metric agent exported metrics](./assets/max-pod-agent-cpu.jpg)

> Following graph show metric agent memory utilization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the metric agent memory utilization:
```

![Metric agent exported metrics](./assets/max-pod-agent-memory.jpg)

Following graph show Kubernetes API server metrics
![Metric agent exported metrics](./assets/max-pod-k8s-api.jpg)

> Test reached max pod count `1430` on cluster, all metrics are successfully received and exported to the metric gateway, no critical memory, cpu or network utilization observed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The test reached a max Pod count `1430` on the cluster. All metrics were successfully received and exported to the metric gateway; no critical memory, cpu or network utilization was observed.
```

> Kubernetes API request duration reach for `GET` operations at peak `~750ms` and for `LIST` operations `~900ms`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes API request duration reach for `GET` operations at peak was `~750ms`, and for `LIST` operations `~900ms`.
```

Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

### Multiple pods and services scraped from multiple receivers

Setup:

Avalanche load generator configuration:
- Metric Count: 500
- Metric Series: 20
- Number of label: 10

Metric agent:

> Metric agent pipeline configuration `metrics/prometheus` configured with an additional receiver `prometheus/app-services` as below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The metric agent pipeline `metrics/prometheus` has been configured with an additional receiver `prometheus/app-services`; see the following configuration:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
data:
  relay.conf: |
    extensions:
        health_check:
            endpoint: ${MY_POD_IP}:13133
    service:
        pipelines:
            metrics/prometheus:
                receivers:
                    - prometheus/app-pods
                    - prometheus/app-services
                processors:
                    - memory_limiter
                    - resource/delete-service-name
                    - resource/insert-input-source-prometheus
                    - batch
                exporters:
                    - otlp
```
Following service created for Avalanche load generator to enable metric scrape from second receiver `prometheus/app-services`
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    prometheus.io/port: "8080"
    prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
  labels:
    app: avalanche-metric-load-generator
  name: avalanche-metric-load-generator
spec:
  clusterIP: None
  ports:
  - name: http-metrics
    port: 8080
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: avalanche-metric-load-generator
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: ClusterIP
```

> Purpose of this test was to determine scrape behavior of metric agent and especially memory impact with multiple receiver under high load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of this test was to determine the scraping behavior of the metric agent, and especially the memory impact with multiple receivers under high load.
```

> Test metric generator started with 10 instances and metrics are scraped by the `prometheus/app-pods` receiver and `prometheus/app-services` receiver in same time independently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The test metric generator started with 10 instances. Metrics are scraped by the `prometheus/app-pods` receiver and `prometheus/app-services` receiver at the same time independently.
```

> Metric generator instances were increased with `2` instance every minute to simulate a ramp-up of load.

Reviewer 2: Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

Reviewer: Reworked

> With 14 instances, metric agent reached the stable peak of `280K` metric samples per scrape loop in total, which is  similar to the single receiver performance.

Reviewer 2: Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

Reviewer: Reworked

Additional load on top of this setup caused refusal of incoming metrics by the `memory_limiter` processor.

> Following graph shows accepted metrics during test by the both receivers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the metrics that were accepted during the test by both receivers:
```

![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-accepted.jpg)

> Following graph shows refused metrics during test from processor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the refused metrics during test from the processor:
```

![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-refused.jpg)

> CPU utilization of the metric agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the CPU utilization of the metric agent:
```

![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-cpu.jpg)

> Memory utilization of the metric agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following graph shows the memory utilization of the metric agent:
```

![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-memory.jpg)

### Scrape sample limit test

Setup:

> Avalanche load generator configuration to generate `2000` metric points per scrape :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avalanche load generator was configured to generate `2000` metric points per scrape:
```
Same here, why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

2023-09-14T09:53:24.989Z	warn	internal/transaction.go:123	Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint	{"kind": "receiver", "name": "prometheus/app-pods", "data_type": "metrics", "scrape_timestamp": 1694685200337, "target_labels": "{__name__=\"up\", instance=\"100.64.13.133:8080\", job=\"app-pods\"}"}
2023-09-14T09:53:45.643Z	warn	internal/transaction.go:123	Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint	{"kind": "receiver", "name": "prometheus/app-pods", "data_type": "metrics", "scrape_timestamp": 1694685216843, "target_labels": "{__name__=\"up\", instance=\"100.64.13.134:8080\", job=\"app-pods\"}"}
2023-09-14T09:53:56.041Z	warn	internal/transaction.go:123	Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint	{"kind": "receiver", "name": "prometheus/app-pods", "data_type": "metrics", "scrape_timestamp": 1694685230337, "target_labels": "{__name__=\"up\", instance=\"100.64.13.133:8080\", job=\"app-pods\"}"}
```

## Summary

Overall test result following findings

> Setup and parameters

Reviewer 2: Isn't this a headline?

```suggestion
### Setup and parameters
```

Again for the following lines: Why are some elements formatted in code font? Does any of our [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md#use-code-font-for-these-items) apply?

- Used metric size was `20` metric data points with `10` labels per each distinct metric
- `1Gi` memory and `1` CPU

> - `memory_limiter` configured for `85%` memory limit, `10%` spike limit with `0.5` second check interval which result (85 -10) `75%` hard limit equivalent to `750Mi` memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `memory_limiter` configured for `85%` memory limit, `10%` spike limit with `0.5` second check interval which results in (85 -10) `75%` hard limit equivalent to `750Mi` memory.
```
Not sure I understood this sentence correctly.

Reviewer: correct

> - Batch processor configured to create batches with `1024` metrics, default batch size `8192` was exceeded grpc client default payload limit `4MB`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Batch processor configured to create batches with `1024` metrics, default batch size `8192` was exceeded by the gRPC client default payload limit `4MB`.
```

Not sure I understood this sentence correctly.

- Metric gateway configured with a log exporter to avoid possible outages by the gateway back pressure (default 2 gateway instances are available) 

> Findings:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Findings
```

> - Test results with a single agent instance and single receiver configuration, a single target scrape reach max `~120K` metric data point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Test results with a single agent instance and single receiver configuration: A single target scrape reached max `~120K` metric data point.
```

> - Single agent instance with single receiver reached `~280K` metric points per scrape (`~14K metric point/sec`) and stay stable, anything above result metric data refused by the `memory_limiter` processor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Single agent instance with single receiver reached `~280K` metric points per scrape (`~14K metric point/sec`) and stayed stable. For anything above, the `memory_limiter` processor refuses the metric data.
```

- Multi node test with single receiver performed on 15 Nodes cluster `1430` pods (this was the max pod count can be deployed on this cluster), agent was able to scrape in total `~2.800K` metrics data per scrape loop and was pushed successfully to the agent without any data dropping by agent side.

>   - No Memory issues identified and no additional memory impact found

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - No memory issues identified and no additional memory impact found.
```

>   - K8s Api server request duration reach for `GET` operations to the `~750ms` and for `LIST` operations `~900ms`, there was only one short peak of `21s` detected for `GET` operation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Kubernetes API server request duration for `GET` operations reached `~750ms` and for `LIST` operations `~900ms`. There was only one short peak of `21s` detected for the `GET` operation.
```

> - `sample_limit` configuration tested for multiple receivers, it's work but there are no metrics identified to see limit violations when occurs, only logs are present in this case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `sample_limit` configuration tested for multiple receivers. It's work but there are no metrics identified to see limit violations when they occur, only logs are present in this case.
```
"It's work" - what is work? Or do you mean "It works"? Not sure how to understand this sentence.

Reviewer: i will change sentence

Reviewer: Reworked

- Multi receiver test reach same stable limit of `~280K` metrics per scrape in total but anything over this limit can cause OOM, OOM observed only when test execution with high load run over 2 hours. Further investigation and analysis required here to improve memory setting to get more resilience. 

## Conclusion

> To achieve a stable and resilient metric agent setup following configuration parameters added or adjusted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve a stable and resilient metric agent setup, the following configuration parameters must be added or adjusted.
```
Just guessing the verb, "must" seems a good match.

> To avoid metric agent to overrun with huge amount of data floods from single scrape target and run in OOM, configuration parameter `sample_limit: 50000` added each prometheus receiver scrape configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid metric agent to overrun with a huge amount of data floods from single scrape target and run in OOM, configuration parameter `sample_limit: 50000` were added to each Prometheus receiver scrape configuration.
```

The metric agent can handle higher values but analyzing current kyma production deployments shown values around `50000` in average.

> For more memory resilience, the processor `memory_limiter` configured with a hard limit of `75%`, hard and soft memory limit check intervals configured to `0.5 second` to allow processor react faster when limits are exceed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more memory resilience, the processor `memory_limiter` was configured with a hard limit of `75%`,  and hard and soft memory limit check intervals were configured to `0.5 second` to allow the processor to react faster when limits are exceed.
```

> Batch processor configured with a batch size `1024` to avoid hit grpc client payload size limit during metric are exported to the gateway instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Batch processor was configured with a batch size of `1024` to avoid hitting the gRPC client payload size limit while metrics are exported to the gateway instances.
```

> Default batch size of `8192` was over the default grpc client payload limit of `4MByte`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default batch size of `8192` was over the default gRPC client payload limit of `4MByte`.
```

> Following ConfigMap contains all configuration adjustment for metric agent as well as prometheus receiver configuration changes, this configuration should be used as reference to implements telemetry manager changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following ConfigMap contains all configuration adjustments for the metric agent, as well as the Prometheus receiver configuration changes. This configuration should be used as reference to implement Telemetry manager changes.
```

# Hardened Metric Agent setup

The aim of this exercise is to harden the metric agent so that it can satisfy the metric load of most of the use cases.

## Setup

> For the test environment following setup used:

Reviewer 2: Thanks for reworking this, but please also use the [suggested grammar](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/pull/406#discussion_r1328704406).

```suggestion
For the test environment, the following setup was used:
```

The test metric generator started with 10 instances. Metrics are scraped by the prometheus/app-pods receiver and prometheus/app-services receiver at the same time independently.
Metric generator instances were increased with 2 instance every minute to simulate a ramp-up of load.

With 14 instances, metric agent reached the stable peak of 280K metric samples per scrape loop in total, which is  similar to the single receiver performance.
Additional load on top of this setup caused refusal of incoming metrics by the memory_limiter processor.

The following graph shows the metrics that were accepted during the test by both receivers:
![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-accepted.jpg)

The following graph shows the refused metrics during test from the processor:
![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-refused.jpg)

The following graph shows the CPU utilization of the metric agent:
![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-cpu.jpg)

The following graph shows the memory utilization of the metric agent:
![Metric agent accepted metrics](./assets/agent-multi-receiver-memory.jpg)

### Scrape sample limit test

> Setup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Conclusion

To achieve a stable and resilient metric agent setup, the following configuration parameters must be added or adjusted.

To avoid metric agent to overrun with a huge amount of data floods from single scrape target and run in OOM, configuration parameter `sample_limit: 50000` were added to each Prometheus receiver scrape configuration.
The metric agent can handle higher values, but analyzing current Kyma production deployments shows values around 50000 in average.

For more memory resilience, the processor memory_limiter was configured with a hard limit of 75%,  and hard and soft memory limit check intervals were configured to 0.5 second to allow the processor to react faster when limits are exceed.

Batch processor was configured with a batch size of 1024 to avoid hitting the gRPC client payload size limit while metrics are exported to the gateway instances.
Default batch size of 8192 was over the default gRPC client payload limit of 4MByte.

By the multi-receiver test some OOM observed, after further analysis result following finding:

> 1. Under high load, memory limiter trigger GC to free memory and go back for normal operation

Reviewer 2: I doubt that the order of findings matters, so a bullet list is better

```suggestion
- Under high load, memory limiter triggers GC to free memory and go back for normal operation.
```

Who is "GC" ?

> 2. Between GC and memory limiter cycles approximately 200MByte on top of live memory occupied

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Between GC and memory limiter cycles, approximately 200MByte on top of live memory were occupied.
```
Who is "GC" ?

> 3. Frequent GC result fragmented memory because go GC has no compaction (only Mark and Sweep)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Frequent GC results in fragmented memory because go GC has no compaction (only Mark and Sweep).
```
Who is "GC" ?

> 4. In certain cases memory get heavily fragmented, despite there are in total enough memory but non-of free memory blocks are big enough for in coming data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In certain cases, memory is heavily fragmented, even if there is enough total memory, but none of the free memory blocks are big enough for incoming data.
```
If non-of is not a typo but a technical term, please ignore my change of that word.

> To solve problem described above, metric agent memory limit increased from 1Gi to 1200Mi, memory_limiter check intervals decreased from 0.5 second to 0.1 second. The test repeated with new configuration and 45% more load over 12 hours, no OOM issues occurred.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To solve that problem, metric agent memory limit was increased from 1Gi to 1200Mi, and `memory_limiter` check intervals were decreased from 0.5 second to 0.1 second. When the test was repeated with this new configuration and 45% more load over 12 hours, no OOM issues occurred.
```
